# GoPyOTE

## 

## Overview

The primary motivating factors in the development of this app are:

1. ... to fit light curves that include the effects of diffraction, filite star size (with limb darkening), and camera exposure time using the **IOTAdiffraction** app.

2. ... to use a programming language and GUI system that would result in an executable (Windows .exe) with zero dependencies. This makes distribution and installation very simple.

3. ... directly use a file generated by **Occult** (which uses a version of the **IOTAdiffraction** app adapted for **Occult** use) for the generation of theoretical light curves for fitting to observation data.

4. ... or allow the user to create a parameters file for use by the **IOTAdiffraction** app. It allows for a mian body ellipse and an optional satellite body ellipse to be drawn  and postioned on the fundamental plane. Distance to the asteroid(s) along with dX and dY (which gives shadow speed and direction) must be specified. If the star has a known (or suspected) finite size projected at the plane of the asteroid(s), this can be specified along with limb darkening parameters.

## 

## GoPyOTE versus PyOTE

The rewrite of the Python/QT5 application preserves nearly all of the functionality of **PyOTE**. Here is the current list of changes:

1. Support for the **RunCam** camera is not provided. If you use that camera, you will have to continue using **PyOTE.**

2. Single point validation is greatly simplified and provides only a calculation of the probability that a selected single point with a suspiciously large drop may actually be a noise artifact. Ultimately, the arbiter(s) of single point validity are currently Dave Herald and Dave Gault. The **GoPyOTE** single point validation is best used as a  *"don't bother reporting this one"* as opposed to being a validator in its own right.

## 

## Features

- **Light curve visualization** - Interactive plotting with zoom and pan
- **Timing analysis** - Automatic detection of cadence errors and dropped frames
- **Normalization** - Correct for clouds, ahze, lighting changes, etc
- **Block integration** - Standard treatment for cameras like the **Watec 910**
- **VizieR** curve export
- **Determination of edge time uncertainties by Monte Carlo trials** using the actual noise from the observation (bootstrap: re-noise theoretical lightcurve with random selection with replacement of measured noise from the baseline). 

## 

## Credits

Developed for the occultation astronomy community by Bob Anderson/IOTA

## 

(bob.anderson.ok@gmail.com)

## 
